# D3

* [Add Document Elements with `.select()`, `.append()` and `.text()`](#Add-Document-Elements)
* [Select a group of elements with `.selectAll()`](#Select-a-group-of-elements)
* [Work with Data](#Work-with-Data)
* [Dynamic Data](#Dynamic-Data)
* [Inline Styling for Elements](#Inline-Styling-for-Elements)

***

## Add Document Elements

The `select()` method selects one element from the document. It takes an argument for the name of the element you want and returns an HTML node for the first element in the document that matches the name. 

The `append()` method takes an argument for the element you want to add to the document. It appends an HTML node to a selected item, and returns a handle to that node.

The `text()` method either sets the text of the selected node, or gets the current text. To set the value, you pass a string as an argument inside the parentheses of the method.

The following will render an `h1` tag with "hello world".

```html
<body>
  <script>
    d3.select("body")
      .append("h1")
      .text("Learning D3")
  </script>
</body>
```
***
## Select a group of elements

`selectAll()` returns an array of HTML nodes for all the items in the document that match the input string. 

The following will select all `li` items and change the text to "list items".

```javascript
    d3.selectAll("li")
      .text("list item")
```
***
## Work with Data

The `data()` method makes D3 aware of a data set, accepting the data itself as an argument.  The `enter()` method helps create a new element in the document for each piece of data within the set.  If there are fewer elements than pieces of data already on the dom, `enter()` will creat more.

The following example will use an array of numbers, stored in the const `dataset` as our data set.  We will select the body, then all `h2` tags within the body (there are none, yet).  Then take the data in and create a new `h2` element so that there is one for each piece of data.

```javascript
<body>
  <script>
    const dataset = [12, 31, 22, 17, 25, 18, 29, 14, 9];
    d3.select("body").selectAll("h2")
      .data(dataset)
      .enter()
      .append("h2")
      .text("New Title")
  </script>
</body>
```
***
## Dynamic Data

The above example simply displays "New Title" for each piece of data.  In order to display the data we can use a call back within the `.text()` method.  The following will display "USD 12" for the first element, and so on.
```javascript
<body>
  <script>
    const dataset = [12, 31, 22, 17, 25, 18, 29, 14, 9];
    d3.select("body").selectAll("h2")
      .data(dataset)
      .enter()
      .append("h2")
      .text((d) => d + " USD")
  </script>
</body>
```
***
## Inline Styling for Elements

D3 lets you add inline CSS syles on dynamic elements with `style()` method.  This method takes a comma-seperate key-value pair as an argument.  In the example below we will add a font-family of veranda to our previous examples.

```javascript
<body>
  <script>
    const dataset = [12, 31, 22, 17, 25, 18, 29, 14, 9];
    d3.select("body").selectAll("h2")
      .data(dataset)
      .enter()
      .append("h2")
      .text((d) => (d + " USD"))
      .style("font-family", "verdana")
  </script>
</body>
```
***
